Solar cells are poised to become a main source of energy production in the near future and improving their efficiency continues to be an active field of research. A particular type of photovoltaic cell (solar cell) will be the focus of this investigation: a DSSC (Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell). DSSCs (also called Grätzel cells after their inventor) are appealing because they are relatively inexpensive and simple to assemble. DSSCs can be assembled without access to the specialized equipment that is required to get silica crystals to the near-perfect structure necessary for acceptable solar energy conversion in silicon solar cells [2][11][13][14]. The main component of DSSCs is TiO2 (Titanium Dioxide), a relatively safe and accessible chemical [2][14]. Photoexcitation - the process by which a material gains energy after absorbing a photon - of TiO2 with the help of a dye provides the necessary energy to release an electron which will travel by diffusion [5] through the outside of the cell, through a load, and back to the counter-electrode forming a circuit. The dye regenerates the electron through a redox reaction with the iodine electrolyte and counter electrode who in turn is regenerated by the electron completing the circuit [2][11]. Due to their low production cost and photovoltaic properties, DSSCs are a good model for other types of photovoltaic cells such as monocrystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, and perovskites among others. A problem with most kinds of solar cells is their drop in efficiency after temperature increases past their optimal temperature[10][16]. A lot of work has been done to address the problem of temperature and research on water sprays, coolants, TEGs (thermoelectric generator), TECs (thermoelectric cooler) and other methods have been conducted [1][10]. This research paper focuses on a solution integrated within the photovoltaic cell that does Research Sample C 2 of 26 3 not require external additions to minimize the maintenance required, maintenance cost, and complexity. The solution proposed involves incorporating carbon aerogel into the TiO2 suspension in an effort to minimize the heating rate of the panel while allowing for electrical conductivity inside the cell and increasing the photovoltaic properties of TiO2 [6]. Aerogels’ unique physical properties enable them to act as excellent insulators despite their low density. Being composed of almost 99% air, it is the porous nanostructure that lends it most of its properties [17]. Silica aerogels are fairly common, but specialized gels can combine the chemical properties of a base material with the insulative properties of aerogel. One such specialized aerogel is a carbon-based aerogel. Apart from the thermally insulative properties, carbon aerogel is also able to conduct some electricity and has been shown to enhance the photovoltaic properties of TiO2 [6]. In a previous investigation I conducted, silica aerogel showed some promise in increasing voltage output in cells by decreasing heat gain. It is possible that the specialized carbon aerogel may provide the insulative advantages of silica aerogel with the addition of increased conductivity and voltage due to its interactions with TiO2 . In the previous year’s research, I was able to incorporate the fibrous silica aerogel into the DSSCs and run two trials with the aerogel cells and the controls without aerogel. Due to limited time constraints, no overall results were reached but individual results from groups were promising. One of the trials showed significant improvement in voltage output between the cells treated with the fibrous silica aerogel and the control cells which lacked the aerogel. The incorporation of a more specialized aerogel like carbon aerogel would provide clearer and more pronounced results. Research Sample C 3 of 26 4 Dye-sensitized solar cells are unique in their architecture regarding the conversion of light into electrical potential. According to Nazeeruddin, Baranoff, & Grätzel, DSSCs generally contain a glass support coated with transparent conductive oxides, a semiconductor film, TiO2, or a similar semiconductor, a sensitizer absorbed onto the surface of the semiconductor, an electrolyte, and a counter electrode capable of regenerating the electrolyte [11]. This project uses FTO (Fluorine-doped Tin Oxide) glass as the transparent conductive oxide, TiO2 as the semiconductor, anthocyanin dye from raspberries, Iodine solution as the electrolyte, and the carbon byproduct of unclean wax combustion to achieve a thin counter electrode. The dye in the cells is generally a ruthenium-based complex that provides stability to the cells [12][15], but for simplicity and low production cost, the organic anthocyanin dye sourced from raspberries was used. Figure 1 represents a functional dye-sensitized solar cell with the materials and a typical electron path. Fig. 1: General pathway of electron transport in DSSCs Research Sample C 4 of 26 5 Currently, there have been papers that have achieved over 10% efficiency with DSSCs [4]. The goal of this research is not to compete with those efficiencies, rather provide a ‘proof of concept’ for the potential of aerogel integration in DSSCs. To demonstrate the potential of aerogel, the experimental cells must perform better than control cells of the same caliber in order to demonstrate that carbon aerogel might be able to mitigate the negative effects of temperature on solar cell efficiency while also increasing the photocatalytic properties of TiO2 .
